In a second, should say, there we go, we're recording now. Where are you at the moment?
I'm at home.
Okay, so I'm going to ask you to introduce yourself. I'll introduce myself and say today's
date and then we'll just get going. Is that okay?
That's fine.
Bear with me one second. I realize I've lost something that's got some of the things that
we're going to talk about. I've got so many screens open, I can't find anything.
Lovely.
There we go. So today is Monday the 26th of October 2020 and my name is Paul Hunt. Could
you introduce yourself please?
Hi, I'm Rhiannon. That's it, my name is Rhiannon. Hello.
So Rhiannon, you spoke to Anna before, didn't you, about just friendships and relationships
in general?
Yes, I did.
And how have things been on that front, ignoring, I suppose, Covid and lockdown for now, but
how did you find it up to March? Any developments?
Yes, there have been quite a lot of developments, although I was doing online dating, which
At first I didn't think it was very successful, but now I've met someone and we've been together
for 11 months, so it's been really good.
Wow.
It's been the first time for a long time that I've actually been in a good place.
Oh, that's nice to hear. So are you comfortable talking about them?
Yes, I am.
So what's their name?
Well, his name is Andy. Obviously, as I said before, we've been talking online and we got
together at the end of last year, which has been great because the company's been great,
the conversation's been flowing very well and it's a good place that I'm in right now.
And where does Andy live?
He lives up in the valleys.
Do you know which valley?
Marseille-Cama.
Oh, OK. We know, yeah, I know.
So it's up there somewhere. But we keep in touch every day. We message each other every day and we
video call sometimes, which is good.
And so were you able to meet him before everything kicked off in person?
Yes, definitely. We met each other twice before the whole lockdown started happening.
So it's been really good. I didn't think I'd find that person because I didn't think
relationships would happen in my life. But now that I've found love, it's the best thing
that's ever happened. I've never been so happy.
So who made the first contact?
I made the first contact and then I didn't hear from him for a while. And then I messaged him again
and it went on from then. So, yeah, it took a bit of persuading because I don't give up a fight.
What attracted you to Andy?
Personality, humour, which also is very important.
And he's always up for doing new things, like going out, going places.
He's actually made me push the boat out and made me do a lot more.
And I feel a lot more confident in myself.
What kind of things has he pushed you to do?
Going to Cardiff. He's actually, I wouldn't say made me, but he's given me the opportunity to
have the confidence to go out more, to go to new places.
And he's made me feel very relaxed as well.
Do you remember the first time that you met him in person?
Yes, we went to a pub when the Six Nations was on last year.
And we ended up going to a pub watching the game in a pub and then having a few drinks and then
going somewhere else for food and watching the rest of the game. So that was the first of many,
which was really good.
How did you feel on the day before you met him?
I felt very nervous because I didn't know what to expect. I didn't know what to do.
I'd never been on a real date, if you could say that, because I've never had
proper relationships or I would say friendships, but that's a different story. But
having a relationship is the best thing that can happen to me right now. And what's the best part
is that my whole family like him as well. So at least I've done something good.
I was going to ask what do your family make of him?
They like him a lot. I think they feel comfortable around him and he's a good love as well.
He is sometimes very quiet, but once you get to know him, he does start to
talk a lot, which I'm liking a lot. I'm happy to introduce him to all my friends and family
so they know that I'm at last as happy as Larry.
We've talked before, obviously, you've mentioned before some mental health issues and
the fact that you have a learning disability. Does he have a learning disability?
Not that I can see or I'm aware of. He does look after me really well,
which is good. We look after each other. It's actually good to have, if I can say it,
an ordinary normal relationship and not having to be watched by someone else just to check that
we're doing okay and we're keeping safe and stuff.
Has that happened to you before? Are you thinking of instances that happened before
or do you think that would happen if he had a learning disability?
I think it would happen if I did go out with someone who did have a learning disability,
that it would be monitored on a regular basis because I don't class myself as having a learning
disability. As I said before, in a lot of my things that I've done, I sit on the fence with
with disability because I can do what everyone else does. I can go out on my own. I can
live independently and I don't have to have someone watch me 24-7.
Can you talk about what you have in common?
We like sports. He likes rugby and he's very into his cars, which is great.
We like going to the cinema together. We've been going a lot
a lot lately to the cinema to watch a film, which is great. We like going out for food
and I think that's about it.
Next thing I'm going to talk about is whether you're comfortable talking about it or not.
Completely up to you. If you think I don't want to talk about that, that's fine.
Is there a physical aspect to your relationship with Andy?
Sometimes there is, but not always.
Did you ask anyone for advice or support around that?
I didn't know how to approach the subject, but I speak to my best friend back home.
I try and catch up with her when I can about how things are going and
what stuff that she can recommend to do or not to do. At least she's on hand at that.
I don't think I would be very comfortable approaching my mum and dad about this.
They probably think that I'm not being careful, if that makes sense.
My dad beforehand, before I got into a relationship, was saying to me,
when are you going to settle down, find a boyfriend and settle down and start a family?
I hope you're being really careful. It's a different side now that I'm in a relationship.
I suppose we'll only have to cross that bridge when we come to it.
Is it something you've talked to Andy about?
Yes, we have. Not too much, but it has been on the cards sometimes when it comes up into conversation.
You say you spoke to your friend about things and obviously you didn't feel comfortable
talking to your parents. Do you think your parents see you differently now?
Yes, they can see how happy I am and how confident I am in myself as well.
I'm finding that as well. I'm finding it more pleasurable going out to places that I wouldn't
dream of going. That's given me a big boost, if that makes sense.
Yes, it does. Thinking then of the last seven and a half months,
how have you found this period in time?
It's very difficult. Not seeing friends or family or all going out.
Being stuck home all day every day is giving me cabin fever.
Could you just say if you live on your own or with other people?
I do live with my boyfriend at the moment.
I was going to ask.
He does go home sometimes, but we do live together now.
At the start back in March, were you living together then or were you apart?
We were together, thankfully.
I knew that if Andy wasn't around that it would be very lonely.
I wouldn't be as happy as I am now because I wouldn't be able to see anyone.
I'm only maybe FaceTime or Teams or on Zoom.
But I am also at the moment, I have been doing a little bit of work here and there, but only at home.
I see. Sorry, go on.
Which has been keeping my brain occupied.
It's given me something to do.
Who do you work for again?
I work for, well, I've got two jobs now.
I'm still with Newport People First, but I haven't been able to
really start with work with them for a while because my job has changed in that respect.
But I am working for Growing Spaces.
They do all sorts of stuff.
Like they've got a gardening group.
They've got a travel buddy group, which I'm involved in.
They've got quite a few shops happening as well.
I'm hopefully going to get more involved with that if and when everything goes back to
the way it was before lockdown.
Were you furloughed at all or not?
No, my job finished with Newport People First at the end of February this year.
I was going to have a month off and then start back in April.
But because of the lockdown, I haven't been back since.
But there's plans for you to go back at some point, is there?
Because I've got a new job happening if and when I go back.
Because my project, as I said before, it's finished now.
So I'll be going on to something different.
There was no question at the start of lockdown that you would stay with Andy rather than
maybe going back on your own, is it?
No, I'm quite happy with Andy being here.
It's also a company for me.
I'm glad it's happened when it has happened, if that makes sense.
How do you think you would be coping if you were still single?
I think I'd be tearing my hair out and thinking, what have I done wrong?
What am I doing wrong?
It's just one of those things that I think, why haven't I managed to find the right person?
I mean, I know it's taken me 16 years to get to where I am.
But I'm in a good place now and hopefully it'll be forever.
And thinking outside of your relationship with Andy, how has it affected the way that
you access the groups or social activities that you attend?
Are you still able to do them online?
Have you been to any before we got lockdown?
I have been to Zoom calls first, having meetings once a week just to see how everyone's coping,
what they've been up to, that sort of thing.
And again, I've been doing that with Growing Space.
They have been keeping in touch with them once a week, once maybe twice a week.
But I know Newport People First haven't been having Zoom calls for a while.
But I think this week they're starting up again.
And that's the only group that I've been involved in.
I haven't been involved in any other groups.
How did you find socializing and talking to people through Zoom rather than face to face?
I found it really hard because I'm so used to seeing people in the flesh,
not over a computer screen.
But I suppose you can't really help that.
But at the moment you can't see people in the flesh or have meetings outdoors or indoors
because it's just not happening.
But I'm looking forward to the time where things do go back to normal.
And we can see people in person and to have meetings and to meet up for coffee like we've
done before, go out as a group.
That's what I'm missing right now is literally going out.
So how has it affected your well-being being locked down and not being able to do those things?
Yes, it has because I'm in hibernation mode
because I haven't been able to see anyone.
I am finding it hard.
I mean, I'm not coping right now.
I just want to go outside and scream.
But I mean, it's not only happening here, it's happening all over the world.
I could imagine what other people are feeling, not having to go out to go to work or go shopping
and just having a good time.
And obviously we're back into day three of the second lockdown now.
How did you feel when that was announced?
It's deflating because I thought in some ways that we were slowly going to go back to work
and to do what we can do like go out.
I'm hoping that if we do this now, we can still see friends and family over Christmas
because that's what's warning us.
I'm hoping that we can still see friends and family over Christmas.
Because that's what's worrying me a lot now is that because of lockdown,
that we won't be able to have a Christmas.
What would be your plans if there wasn't a lockdown?
Now I'd be working for Deafinite.
I'd be carrying out my work.
I'd be carrying out my meetings like I have done over the few years that I've been with
Newport People First and hopefully I'd be making a difference to people's lives with
taking them places they've never been to before.
Thinking Christmas Day, would you normally go to see your parents or go somewhere else?
Yes, I'd be going to my parents over Christmas because we usually have Christmas together anyway
with my sister and her husband coming down from London.
If we have a lockdown like this over Christmas,
Christmas isn't going to be the same this year.
I don't think.
Were you with Andy last Christmas?
No, I was with Andy last Christmas.
No, this will be our first proper Christmas together.
So if you're still locked down at Christmas, will you be spending it with Andy then?
Yes, definitely.
If you've had ups and downs in the last few months, who do you speak to about those things?
I've been talking to, because I also get support as well.
So I've been having support about it.
But now because of the new lockdown, I've cancelled my support for these two weeks.
What kind of support do they give you?
I have support with going shopping or sometimes they'll help with housework,
things like that.
If I need to go to a doctor's appointment, they'll come with me.
That sort of thing.
How did they react to your new relationship?
They were very happy.
Although with the support workers that I've been having, I haven't had a constant one coming every week.
I've been having different people come every week, so it's really difficult.
Not having the same people every time?
Yes.
Do you feel that they know you well or is it not enough time to get to know someone?
It's not enough time to get to know them because you have one person and then you don't see them
for a month or two and then they just rock up out of the blue.
The thing is I get so many new people come see me that I don't even know.
I haven't met before and with that I always like to get to know them first before I chuck them in the deep end.
I don't know which is better, throwing them in the deep end first and then getting to know them
or getting to know them first and then chucking them in the deep end. I don't know.
Where do you feel the most comfortable?
The first thing I feel is that I feel comfortable with the people that I've met before.
When the restrictions first eased, do you remember what the first thing you did was?
I went out for a meal and I saw my parents.
Where did you go for food?
I forgot now. We went somewhere in town but I know that we went out for a meal on Friday afternoon
with my parents. We went to the the pen and wig and we had a meal with my parents.
We went to the pen and wig and we had a meal with my parents.
We went to the pen and wig in town so that was good to have a catch up and
just see them before we get locked away again.
How did it feel that first time you went back out after the restrictions first got eased?
I felt like it was as if that I've been let out for good behaviour.
It was great because I could have fresh air and I didn't have a time limit as to when I had to be
home again but just going out was the best thing because it blew all the cobwebs away.
We were out in the fresh air and it was just great.
Obviously although some of the restrictions have been removed now you've got to wear a mask when
you're in shops. You've got two metre distances and things. How did you find dealing with that?
Very difficult. I'm finding it hard doing the two metre distance and I'm really struggling with
masks. Is that wearing them or having to talk to people who are wearing them?
I just feel with wearing a mask it feels like someone's constantly
behind you with their mouth covering your nose and mouth so you can't breathe.
In a way to say I feel very suffocated with the mask on. I just can't breathe.
Are you aware of things that you can do like get a lanyard that you're exempt from wearing a mask?
I've got a lanyard. I'm just looking for a card to go with it.
Because I think I've seen two or three people with the actual disability
lanyard and the exemption card you get with it.
I don't know where you can get them from and I'm really struggling. I've got the
sunflower yellow and green lanyard. I just need that card to go with it and I've got no idea where
to get one from. After the interview I'll give you a helpline. They might be able to help you.
Okay thank you.
Let me just have a look. I remember you saying in your original interview that one of your best
friends was still living in South Africa. Yes. I presume your relationship with her hasn't
necessarily changed that much? No it hasn't. We keep in touch almost every day.
Although she doesn't have a disability of any sort she's still struggling with day-to-day stuff.
She gets panic attacks as well. But who would get panic attacks when you're in an environment
like you are in this present day? Have you felt lonely at all in the last not seven months?
Not really. No. Because I've had Andy to hand. He's been good company. It seems weird because
sometimes when I'm in a relationship I sometimes think I want to be on my own. I can't wait
to be on my own and almost 12 months down the line I've never felt like that. I've never felt
like I wanted to check anyone out because I wanted time to myself which I find really strange.
So you're not planning to have some alone time at the moment then? Not at all. Are you worried
about catching the Covid-19? I am when I'm out although having the face mask does work.
But as soon as we had lockdown I got a cold and trying to see if I could get a test
was really difficult. If I had a car it wouldn't be so bad but because I don't have a car and I've
got no one to take me it was hard to get a test as well. To get a test I'd have to pay like £160
something like that. For a private one is it? Well I wouldn't know if that would be a private
one or just in general. The tests that everyone can get are free.
So you didn't get one done did you? No I didn't.
So you mentioned the lack of access to a car and stuff. I presume your support still helped you
with shopping during the first lockdown? Yes they did. Thankfully I live near a shop so
because support workers aren't allowed to use their cars with taking people places
because of not restrictions but policy that they've their new policy they've got in now.
So we've been walking to the shop and then bringing it home.
So that's helped in a lot of ways but since lockdown as well I've been doing online shopping
which is better because you're not interacting with other people
which I suppose is a good thing because in that way you are saving lives.
But I prefer going to a shop buying what you want in the store and then come home because
you know what you're getting.
There have been a lot of rules and regulations over our lives in the last few months. Have you
always understood what they are? No because it's been very confusing. It's okay for one
for one part of the country and then it's a different story for the next. So I don't know
what's true and what's not. Sorry to hear that. That must be quite difficult. It is very difficult.
Do you think that your relationship with your family Andy or your friends have changed in the
last seven months? I don't think so. I think it's brought us closer together because
because of the situation we're in I think it's brought us closer.
It's definitely made me closer to my parents because
the thing is when I see them I almost cry when I say goodbye because I never know when I'm going
to see them again which is I don't know I really don't know how to explain that.
But I just find it difficult now because we're not able to see people in the flesh.
I'm really struggling.
And so do you talk to Andy about those feelings that you have? I do sometimes.
Does that help? It does. It definitely helps
when and if you can speak to people about how you're feeling.
Do you think there's been any positive things that come out of all of this?
Well for me definitely getting a relationship. That's the best thing on top of my list.
I don't think there's any other thing that I can think of that's different.
And so when things return to normal or whatever normal will be now what's the one thing you're
looking forward to doing the most? I think seeing my mum and dad. I think they're the
most important people I want to see because I mean okay
I mean they're at the age where they're almost at retiring age so I don't know
it's best to take advantage when you can see them because again you don't know when
when you're going to see them in the long run.
And so I think we're nearly at the end now so is there anything else you'd like to talk about or
something that you think we haven't covered? I don't think there is anything that I can think
of at the top of my head. Thank you very much Rhianna I'm going to stop recording now. No problem.
Let me find the button.
Okay.